Next up let's talk about variables.
So far we've seen how to write numbers in simple mathematical expressions but we're not capturing any
information we're not able to recall any values.
It's just basically a calculator a nice javascript calculator.
But when we add variables in we now can keep track of values and recall them Or update them whenever
we want.
So variables are like labeled jars.
You can see about this diagram on the right hand side where we have a value.
And it goes into a sort of a container that has a label on it.
So in this case we're saying age is 72 the number 72.
So we can store value we give it a name so that we can recall it later.
We could use it.
We can pass it to something we can change it can do all sorts of things.
So very very important concept in programming.
We make variables all the time.
So the basic syntax that we'll see first is using a keyword called left.
Now there actually are two different ways that we can create variables in JavaScript at least two that
are commonly used today.
There's another option which we'll talk about in a separate video coming up.
So for now we're talking about it in concept.
First up let.
So let is the keyword we start with.
And then a variable name some name is what I'm calling it here it could equal or it could be anything
you want.
It could be my variable.
It could be stupid variable.
It could be chicken eggs.
There are a couple of conventions that we'll talk about in a moment and then we have an equal sign and
then a value.
So to recreate what we have here we would write let age equals 72 let age equals 72.
Now we have a value called age and at any point I can recall it just like that.
We usually don't just recall age for no reason.
We usually do something with it.
Here's a simple example we have two variables hands which is four and roosters which is two we can add
them together hence plus roosters.
So not only are we saving a value that we can recall later we're also giving it a nice name.
A way of understanding what it is we can see clearly we are adding hens to roosters we're trying to
calculate total number of chickens versus just adding four plus two.
It's not as easy to tell what's going on but the main value here the main reason for variables is that
we are storing information so that we can recall it and use it later.
So we can recall them.
But of course we can also update them.
So here I have hens which I'm initializing to four and a raccoon killed on my hands very very sad for
those who don't know raccoons while adorable are quite vicious towards lots of animals especially chickens.
I could do something like hens minus one which you might think would change the value of hens but it's
not actually doing that at all.
Here I have my age variable which is 72.
If I do age plus 1 let's say that this person had a birthday.
Their age should now be 73.
I'm not actually changing the value all that I'm doing is saying hey javascript give me that value for
age and then add one to it but I'm not telling it to update age.
So the easiest way or the first way to change it is to set hens or age equal to the variable current
value plus or minus or whatever we're trying to do we change it based off of the current value.
So for example age equals age plus 1.
Now we have 73 in age as you can see there.
We can do it again if I recall it with the up arrows.
I'm adding one let's add a whole decade.
Now if we look at age it's 84.
So that's one way of updating a variable and we can multiply divide.
We could do whatever we want.
We could also just completely change it.
I could say age is actually now 18.
This person was reincarnated as a teenager actually is 18 considered a teenager.
I don't know adult.
Anyway we've now set it to 18.
Now there are a couple of things to know about variables.
The first is that you can't technically name your variables anything.
For example you couldn't name a variable.
Let let let equals 10.
Javascript will get very confused because light is a reserved word it's a key word in the language of
JavaScript so it thinks that we're trying to make another variable here and you can see left is disallowed
as electrically bound name.
So that doesn't work.
There are others that you still encounter definitely in JavaScript.
There's something called the document.
The document is a special object.
We haven't talked about objects but it's something that exists in your browser.
And so if you tried to make a variable called document that document equals 15 identifier document has
already been declared.
So there are some things you'll need to look out for but for the most part you can name your variables
anything.
That doesn't mean you should.
There are some things you should be aware of or that you should keep in mind.
First of all you want to give your variable a name that makes sense.
So you don't want to do let X equals 18 when in reality this is a value for age or you wouldn't want
to do.
Let's see equals five.
If this was a five star rating why not call it rating or score or something like that.
So naming is very very important and along with that there's a convention in JavaScript where we name
variables using camel case camel case just means that when you have multiple words multiple pieces in
a variable name like num of hands you capitalize the first letter of each new word except for the first
one at least in javascript.
So this is camel case except for the first letter.
We don't want to have an uppercase first letter it won't break things you can do this num of heads equals
six.
I think I had forward earlier.
Now we have six some of the eggs hatched.
This works but the convention the pattern that developers follow in javascript that companies want you
to follow that style guides want you to follow is to lowercase the first letter and then uppercase the
first letter of every other word after that.
So let average rating equal let's go with nine point seven.
OK so that's one thing to keep in mind you don't want to do average dash rating.
We don't want snake case or you use underscores and you don't want to just let it bleed together like
this.
If those are actual separate words it's much easier to read if you have camel casing lastly if you try
and read declare a variable that you've already made like what I just do average rating.
If I wanted to make another average rating and I want to set it to zero this time Nope not gonna happen
with let javascript tells me identifier average rating has already been declared.
So if we create a variable with a given name using but we can not then read declare it.
We cannot make a new variable with the same name using let.
We can only have one of those in a given scope which we haven't talked about scope.
So don't worry about it we'll return to it.
But you can see the problem right.
We already have average rating.
We've made space for it in memory.
JavaScript is like OK.
There's one thing called average rating.
You try and make another it's not going to be happy with you and you get this error.